Mouth watering warm apple pie is a cinch with the best apple pie recipe. This is my favorite recipe for apple pie and it isn't fancy. Just plain apple goodness in a tasty crust.

Use your favorite cooking apple. MacIntosh apples are plentiful in the fall in my area and that's my preferred pie baking apple. I like that the apples lose their shape a bit and get very soft and juicy.

I also love using Cortland and Spy apples. Traditional wisdom in my area says spy apples make the best apple pie recipe.

You may prefer an apple that holds its shape more. Choose your favorite.

In the Big Apple Pie Debate are you a cinnamon person or a nutmeg person?

I am a cinnamon person myself and have used just cinnamon in this recipe.

Because I know there are a lot of nutmeg lovers out there, I have adjusted the recipe to use either a mix of cinnamon and nutmeg or just nutmeg, for the real nutmeg fans.

Either way, there really is nothing quite like warm apple pie, fresh out of the oven is there?


1 double pie crust recipe (you will find 2 recipes here)
5 to 6 cups apples, peeled and thinly sliced
1/2 to 3/4 cup sugar (to your taste and depends on the sweetness of the apples)
3 tablespoons flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon
dash salt
2 tablespoons cold butter

Preheat the oven to 425Œ·ŒıŒ˘F.

Lay 1/2 the pastry, rolled out to about 1/8" thickness, in the bottom of the pie pan and press it in gently to lay flat in the pan. Leave the excess crust hanging over the edges for now.

Place peeled, sliced apples in a bowl. Mix together the sugar, flour, salt and cinnamon. Pour over sliced apples and mix. Fill the pie pan with the apples and pat down with a spoon. Dot the filling with pieces of butter.

Moisten the lip of the pie pan with water. Place the top layer of rolled out crust over the filling, making sure crust reaches outer edges of the pie pan all around. Seal the edge and flute all around (see notes below for how to flute a pie edge).

Take a fork and prick the pie top in several places to create vents for steam to escape. Bake for 50 minutes, until pastry is golden and the filling is bubbling through the vents.

Let cool a bit before cutting to allow the filling to settle.

Makes 1 - 9" pie.

Enjoy. 
